# Neural networks and biological intelligence

While Artifical neural networks (ANN) are often described as being inspired by biological neural networks (BNN), there seems to be strong disagreement on the question of where exactly this analogy stops. 

There are two related but distinct questions which can be explored here:
* In what sense do ANNs mimic the same processing which is going on in BNNs like the brain.
* Will the learning and representation mechanisms of artificial neural networks be able to improve our understanding of intelligence expressed through biological systems.

In the context of these notes, the first question  only interests us in so far as the potential differences are meaningful with regards to what emergent behaviour can manifest at the "macro" level i.e. if ANNs are "close enough" to BNNs that a system based on the former can successfully imitate a system based on the latter then any low-level difference is nearly an implementation detail. Its important to note here that _imitation_ is not merely a statement about the ANNs capability at test time (which would reduce the above to the Turing test) but also to learning behaviour. The answer to the former we already know in some sense as both ANNs and BNNs are Turing complete [^1] so we know that the one can simulate the other but we dont know if the former can do that with the same efficiency as the latter. Current deep learning practices do not indicate that as

*
Note that imitation should in pricnple also extend sentience and consciousness but as this is not verifiable by an outside observer we will conveniently leave this out.

## References
[^1]: Jorge Pérez, Javier Marinković, Pablo Barceló , *On the Turing Completeness of Modern Neural Network Architectures*, 2019. [Arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1901.03429)

<!---
  * Analog vs digital implementations
  * 
-->